---
layout: article
date: 2010-08-29
permalink: about/news/year2010/pdd
tags: news
label: PDD
title: "Puzzle Driven Development (pdd) To Help In Distributed Projects"
description: |
  One of the biggest problems in parallel distributed
  programming has been solved with a patent-pending method
  called Puzzle Driven Development (PDD).
keywords:
  - puzzle driven development
  - distributed programming
  - remote team
  - quality control
  - continuous integration
---

Read more on this topic in
[php|Architect, August 2010](http://www.phparch.com/magazine/2010/august/)
article
["Prevent Conflicts in Distributed Agile PHP Projects"](http://img.rultor.com/guard-article.pdf), by Yegor Bugayenko.

Parallel programming in a distributed team is a tricky and risky process, especially if your project
wants to be successful and delivered on time. Subversion helps isolate programmers in their
branches, but when they start to reintegrate into trunk, conflicts may effectively ruin hours or
days of work.

Distributed development of software over the last decade has been growing in popularity. This is
mostly due to the continuous improvement of the quality of communication channels and the emergence
of new methods of interaction between us, in the Internet. Nowadays, brick-and-mortar offices become
less effective when a software project requires the participation of engineers with different
skills, experience, and price.

One of the biggest problems in parallel programming is conflicts of source code. People tend to make
chaotic changes and then later fail to merge their results with similar contributions made by
others. Puzzle Driven Development (PDD) solves the problems, by means of using so called "puzzles"
inside source code.

More on this topic to be revealed later, when patent application is published by USPTO.
