---
layout: article
date: 2014-08-08
permalink: about/news/year2010/phprack
label: phpRack Introduced
title: "A Unique Open-source Integration Testing Framework Developed"
description: |
  phpRack, a new open-source framework has been introduced to
  web developers by a dedicated distributed team of PHP
  programmers managed by TechnoPark Corp.
keywords:
  - integration testing
  - phpRack
  - PHP
  - quality control
  - continuous integration
---

Read more in [php|Architect, June 2010](http://www.phparch.com/magazine/2010/june/) article "", by 
Yegor Bugayenko.

Unit tests plus continuous integration give you a guarantee that most of your source code defects 
will be caught before they reach end users. Unit tests verify the code beforehand and a continuous 
integration server informs you if a defect is found, right before deployment. It's a proven 
mechanism used in the majority of products striving for quality. But who can guarantee that if a 
defect is found after deployment it is reported immediately before disappointed end users find it? 
Integration tests can effectively do this.

To be short, "Integration Testing" is similar to unit testing, however the testing subject is not 
the software itself, but its deployment environment. With integration tests, you're verifying 
whether your product is located in a comfortable place and is ready for end users. Unit tests verify 
your product one-by-one, where integration tests verify you one-by-one. Sound weird? This article 
explains the concept and its implementation in , the open-source framework. framework is written in 
PHP, but can be used for the integration testing of products written in any other web-oriented 
language, including Java, Python, Ruby, etc.

Let's start with a simple example. Imagine you developed a web-system and prepared it for delivery 
to your customer. You created complete and detailed installation instructions where you explained 
the requirements to the server-side system software configuration. Despite your efforts, very soon 
you receive a complaint from the customer: "The system is full of bugs and we can't make it work!" 
But you know for sure that the product is properly tested and works on your local machine. You 
understand that the problem is in the installation, within the customer's server environment. How do 
you explain to the customer where the problem is and how to fix it?

One option is to do the work yourself. Ask the customer for root access to the server, debug the 
software there, find the problems, fix them, and make the customer happy. This solution is very 
common, but is also a very costly and risky method. First, you don't know how much time this 
procedure might take. Second, you might unintentionally break other products on the same server. 
Third, you will become responsible for the server and this installation forever. Fourth, ...the list 
of possible problems is endless. The bottom line is that this manual approach, although very common, 
is the worst option.

Integration tests are a great alternative. You create small supplementary software modules (called 
"") that are executed on the production server and validate critical environment parameters. For 
example: version of PHP, availability of PHP extensions, version of MySQL, database access 
permissions, accessibility of network ports, read/write access permissions of log files and 
directories, etc. (Some of my products have 50 or more different integration tests). In addition to 
the integration tests, you need software that will start all of them together and report a summary 
result in a user-friendly format. Then, you can show this report to the customer, indicating the 
problems with the server. Once they are fixed, your product works as if it is being installed on 
your local machine. Easy!

simplifies this work, and lets you write integration tests fast and easy. is the first unique 
product of its kind. is a free open-source product.
