---
layout: article
date: 2009-02-12
permalink: about/news/year2009/metrics
tags: news
label: Four Symptoms
title: "Four Most Severe Symptoms Of Lost Quality Control"
description: |
  Quality-of-code in remote programming projects can be
  monitored and controlled by means of instant metrics and
  motivation mechanisms. TechnoPark Corp. has developed such a
  method.
keywords:
  - cyclomatic complexity
  - code coverage
  - software quality
  - quality control
  - software metrics
  - continuous integration
---

Almost every software outsourcing programming contract experiences the same problems with quality of
software code produced by remote programmers. Customers don't have enough programming skills and
spare time to check the quality-of-code regularly. Programmers don't think too much about quality
since the customer is far away.

As a result, quality-of-code is out of the customer's control. There are four severe symptoms of
such a situation:

<ol>
        <li>You are afraid to change key programmers since each of them possesses some unique knowledge about your product;</li>
        <li>You can only hope that your code is of good quality because your coders say it is;</li>
        <li>You can't add new features freely since the product becomes unstable after every new change;</li>
        <li>You feel that if you want to get higher quality-of-code you have to change programmers.</li>
    </ol>

TechnoPark Corp. has developed a solution that returns control over quality-of-code to the
customer's hands. Special software built into a continuous integration cycle collects the two
most-valuable source code metrics (Code Coverage and Cyclomatic Complexity) and converts their
values into bonuses for programmers. By doing this regularly and automatically, the customer and the
project team get a unique level of control over quality-of-code.

More details about the method are available on the TechnoPark Corp website at [ht
tp://www.technoparkcorp.com/innovations/metrics](http://www.technoparkcorp.com/innovations/metrics).
The method can be implemented in new projects managed by TechnoPark Corp and in currently running
projects where TechnoPark Corp might play a role as the project management contractor.

TechnoPark Corp. is a custom software development company that makes complex full-scale project
management simple and clear by means of automated innovative metrics.
