---
layout: article
date: 2007-03-21
permalink: about/news/year2007/news11
tags: news
title: "Technopark Corp. Becomes Member Of Russoft"
description: |
  TechnoPark Corp. has become an associate member of RUSSOFT
  Association. RUSSOFT is an international association of
  development companies aimed at promoting Russian, Ukrainian
  and Belarusian software services.
keywords:
  - software development
---

It is the major software association in the region uniting leading outsourcing software development
companies. The Association's website provides software market studies and information about software
development companies from the Ukraine, Belarus and Russia.

As a respected organization, RUSSOFT Association provides strict criteria for its members. Only
companies that meet the criteria are granted membership. By becoming a RUSSOFT Association member,
TechnoPark Corp. proved its high level of services and products.

The Association unites about 80 companies now, including TechnoPark Corp. From RUSSOFT Association:
"We maintain the highest level of international standards, professional training and quality
control, whereas our companies are the absolute leaders by CMMI/ISO certification in Europe. Their
capabilities have been proven by long term customer relationships and partnerships with such
companies as IBM, Boeing, SAP, Italtel, CSC and others."

The outsourcing industry is swiftly developing in eastern Europe. This development is stimulated by
high intellectual potential derived from the powerful military sector of the USSR, low cost of IT
personnel, governmental support, and cultural ties with western Europe.

Today, small and medium-sized businesses are major customers of eastern European offshoring
companies. Major corporations still hesitate about offshoring software projects to the region,
because of the lack of knowledge about the area. To solve this problem, IT outsourcing associations
are established, and international forums and conferences are held in the leading outsourcing
locations of eastern Europe which are Russia, Belarus and Ukraine.

RUSSOFT is the largest association in the region, and membership is only granted to reliable and
mature IT outsourcing companies. For an outsourcer searching for a partner in the region, RUSSOFT
membership should guarantee high quality products and processes as well as reliability of the
provider. Benefits of membership for outsourcing software development service providers include
additional promotional opportunity and communication of experience with other industry players.

Besides RUSSOFT, TechnoPark Corp. is a member of Ukrainian High-Tech Initiative - the biggest
association of IT outsourcing companies in the Ukraine. TechnoPark Corp. is a standing speaker at
the annual Ukrainian Outsourcing Forum (UOF) held by the Ukrainian High-Tech Initiative. From
TechnoPark Corp., membership in associations and participation in forums and conferences are
necessary not only for the company's self-promotion, but also for the promotion of IT Outsourcing
Industry in the Ukraine, as long as the country has a very high potential to become one of the
world's outsourcing leaders in the next few years.
