---
layout: article
date: 2014-08-08
permalink: about/news/year2007/sf
title: "Partnership Yields Profits For Technopark Corp."
description: |
  Ukranian software development company TechnoPark Corp.
  announces significant improvements in its sales processes
  after a successful partnership with Salesforce.com.
keywords:
  - software development
---

Naples, FL, October 26, 2007 - Ukranian software development company TechnoPark Corp. announces 
significant improvements in its sales processes after a successful partnership with Salesforce.com.

In order to improve customer satisfaction and increase revenue, TechnoPark Corp. started to work 
with Salesforce.com's online sales automation software. The project commenced in March 2007, and the 
last 7 months have produced significant improvements in TechnoPark Corp's sales process.

TechnoPark Corp. implemented software from Salesforce.com to manage a centralized database of all 
existing and prospective customers. Sales representatives and executive managers can update the 
database as needed.

TechnoPark Corp. no longer needs two databases to manage customer information. Salesforce.com 
software includes a plug-in for Microsoft outlook that tracks all incoming and outgoing emails and 
stores them. A full communication history is maintained along with the customer's contact information.

Salesforce.com is more than custom relationship management (CRM) software, but serves as an 
effective platform for the development of Web 2.0 applications. The company boasts over 35,000 
customers worldwide, and has delivered success to notable industry giants like Corporate Express and 
Dow Jones Newswires.

Salesforce.com provides TechnoPark Corp. and other businesses with a valuable solution to handle 
important customer and sales data. TechnoPark Corp. is an upcoming leader in outsourced software 
development. Its affordable and professional services are catered to small and mid-sized software 
development needs.

Other CRM giants such as Oracle, Siebel, and Amdocs compete against Salesforce.com's user-friendly 
software and outstanding customer service. The company is producing effective results, as evidenced 
by TechnoPark Corp.'s successful implementation of Salesforce.com products.
