---
layout: article
date: 2014-08-08
permalink: process/time/spi
label: SPI
title: "Schedule Performance And Variance Indicator"
intro: "Learn how to track a project with Earned Value Analysis data"
description: |
  Earned Value data helps us track project performance. SPI
  (EV/PV) is an indicator of project performance.
keywords:
  - SPI
  - earned value analysis
  - earned value
  - planned value
  - project performance tracking
  - continuous integration
  - software outsourcing
  - offshore development
  - distributed programming
next: process/time/iteration
---

[Earned Value Analysis](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Earned\_value\_management) is a method of 
tracking the status of a project. It is based on numeric parameters and provides a transparent and 
un-biased snapshot of the project situation. [The Schedule](/process/time/schedule) is tracked by 
means of Earned Value (EV) and Planned Value (PV) parameters.

EV is calculated as the total amount of required planned staff-hours for those requirements that you 
already accepted.

PV is calculated as a piece of the project [Budget](/process/cost/budget). The amount is shown in 
staff-hours that were planned to be spent by today (staff-hours are divided evenly across the 
completed requirements.)

Consider the following example, we have 5 requirements, today is the 25th day of the project. The 
total Budget is 615 staff-hours, and total project duration is 40 days (this is a snapshot of 
requirements attributes table):

<table>
        <tr>
            <th>#</th>
            <th>Requirement</th>
            <th>Size</th>
            <th>Status</th>
        </tr>
        <tr><td>R1</td><td>User can manage account</td><td>145</td><td>accepted</td></tr>
        <tr><td>R2</td><td>User can upload video</td><td>80</td><td>accepted</td></tr>
        <tr><td>R3</td><td>Admin can manage users</td><td>120</td><td>accepted</td></tr>
        <tr><td>R4</td><td>Admin can view reports</td><td>180</td><td>implemented</td></tr>
        <tr><td>R5</td><td>Admin can filter users</td><td>90</td><td>specified</td></tr>
    </table>

EV is the sum of 145, 80 and 120 staff-hours (all of the requirements that are accepted so far). EV 
is equal to 345 staff-hours.

PV is the result of 25/40 days that have been put into the project (0.625), and then multiplied by 
615 staff-hours. PV equals to approximately 384 staff-hours. According to the plan, we have to 
deliver 384 accepted staff-hours to the customer on the 25th day of the project.

SPI is calculated as EV/PV and equals to 345/384 = 0.898. That means that the project is behind 
schedule now and corrective actions are required.

This example shows how the project can be tracked without excess technical details. This information 
(EV, PV and SPI) is presented to you at each Iteration Acceptance Meeting (by the end of each 
[Iteration](/process/time/iteration)) and is available instantly online in our management software.

The SPI should always be equal to or greater than 1.0. This is a key aspect for the project manager. 
If an SPI is less than 1.0, the project manager immediately impelements corrective action, which 
could be one of the following (depending on other project characteristics):

 * Add more resources
 * Change the scope by moving requirements to the next release
 * Re-estimate the project and approve a new Schedule and Budget (worst variant)

The numbers presented by an Earned Value analysis help you, the project team, and project manager to 
stay on the same page during the course of the whole project.

Earned Value data is not meaningful during the [Inception Phase](/process/time/inception), when 
[Specification](/process/scope/specification) is not yet approved. Following the [LCO 
Milestone](/process/time/lco) is consensus, the project manager will start to calculate the SPI.
