---
layout: article
date: 2014-08-08
permalink: process/cost/rom
label: ROM Estimate
term: rom
title: "Rough Order Of Magnitude Estimate"
intro: "Learn more about ROM Estimate, our estimation and quotation methods"
description: |
  Rough order of magnitude estimate (ROM) gives preliminary
  information about project cost
keywords:
  - ROM estimate
  - rough order of magnitude
  - rough order magnitude
  - preliminary estimate of project size
  - what is ROM
  - cost estimation
  - project size estimation
  - project budget
next: stories
---

When a project is started and Requirements are not specified in great detail, the exact project 
[Budget](/process/cost/budget) can not be calculated without mistakes (due to the well-known [Cone 
of Uncertainty](http://www.construx.com/Page.aspx?hid=1648)). Concrete numbers in this stage will 
lead to an ineffective situation in which you or us may experience loss.

To avoid the possibility of such an ineffective situation, we provide a Rough Order-of-Magnitude 
(ROM) Estimate of costs and time when Requirements are not specified in the early stages of the 
project. The ROM Estimate is based on [Vision](/process/scope/vision) document that includes a list 
of [Features](/process/scope/feature).

The ROM Estimate includes the following project parameters which are the foundation for estimation:

<table>
        <tr>
            <th style="width: 100px;">Parameter</th>
            <th>Explanation</th>
        </tr>

        <tr>
        <td>Interval, staff-hours</td>
        <td>Project may be completed within this range if all Requirements
        will be within the scope specified by Vision document.</td>
        </tr>

        <tr>
        <td>Accuracy, %</td>
        <td>ROM Estimate is created by three estimators. Accuracy equals to 100% minus the
        biggest difference between one individual estimate and the mean.</td>
        </tr>

        <tr>
        <td>Time estimate, weeks</td>
        <td>Minimum and maximum duration of the project in weeks.</td>
        </tr>

        <tr>
        <td>Retainer</td>
        <td>Amount of staff-hours required to complete Inception Phase in order to produce
        detailed Specification and exact project Budget.</td>
        </tr>

        <tr>
        <td>KSLOC estimated</td>
        <td>An estimate of Kilo Software Lines Of Code to be written in the project. We calculate
        and estimate only hand-written, non-empty, non-comment lines of code.</td>
        </tr>

        <tr>
        <td>Unadjusted FPs</td>
        <td>Function Points as an output parameter from COCOMO-II estimate method. In a simplified approach,
        function points could be compared with software functions or class methods.</td>
        </tr>

        <tr>
        <td>Features, BC/WC/ML</td>
        <td>List of Features from Vision document that were used by estimators. Best Case (BC),
        Worst Case (WC), and Most Likely (ML) are the output numbers of three-point estimate method.
        The numbers are just programming staff-hours by the estimate of programmers.</td>
        </tr>

    </table>

In order to calculate the numbers above, we use our own patent-pending estimation method, that is 
based on [COCOMO-II Software Cost Estimation Technology](http://sunset.usc.edu/research/COCOMOII/), 
[PERT (Program Evaluation and Review 
Technique)](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Program\_Evaluation\_and\_Review\_Technique) and [Wideband Delphi](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wideband\_delphi).

Completion of the ROM Estimate takes up to 48 hours.

Projects smaller than 1500 staff-hours and larger than 5,000 staff-hours are not subject to ROM 
Estimation. When Specification is defined and project scope is baselined, we use our innovative 
method for project cost estimating called "[Scope Champions](/innovations/scope-champions)".
