---
layout: article
date: 2008-01-11
permalink: about/news/year2008/truste
title: "Technopark Corp. Provides Proof Of Privacy"
description: |
  TechnoPark Corp. displays the TRUSTe Seal of privacy and
  works toward ISO 27001 certification.
keywords:
  - software development
---

Naples, FL, January 11, 2008 - TechnoPark Corp. (TPC) has enlisted a third party verification for 
their security and privacy practices. By displaying the TRUSTe seal, along with the TPC privacy 
policy, TechnoPark Corp. verifies that they meet industry standards for protecting their customer's 
rights and their customer's personal information.

A privacy policy states the legal ways a company collects and distributes personal information. For 
their provider of a Privacy Seal, TechnoPark Corp. chose TRUSTe, an internationally recognized 
non-profit organization that verifies a company's privacy standards. Along with verifying TechnoPark 
Corp.'s privacy statement, TRUSTe provides dispute resolution programs and they regularly review 
their customer's websites for continued compliance.

"TechnoPark Corp always strives for transparency," says Arthur Petrenko, Marketing Director for 
TechnoPark Corp. "We want to be sure that when a prospective customer considers using our services 
they are absolutely confident that their personal data will never be compromised."

In order to receive a privacy seal, TPC had to show that their customers can opt out of direct 
marketing and the selling of their information to third parties. The privacy policy explains such 
things as why TPC collects personal information, how they use the information they collect, and how 
to unsubscribe from email notifications. The complete privacy policy and seal can be found at [http://www.technoparkcorp.com/about/privacypolicy](/about/privacypolicy).

To take their privacy assurances even further, TechnoPark Corp. is also now preparing for ISO 27001 
certification. This is a three-step process that verifies security procedures, audits information 
security controls, and then provides a follow-up inspection to assure that a company maintains 
compliance. TechnoPark Corp. expects to be certified in the next eight to ten months. This process 
follows on the heels of their successful ISO 9001:2000 certification in November of 2007.

More information about TRUSTe can be found on their website, . TechnoPark Corp. is a US-based 
outsourcing software development company with a development center in the Ukraine.
