---
layout: article
date: 2008-06-02
permalink: about/news/year2008/zumber
title: "Technopark Corp Develops Their First Personalized Search Engine For A Niche Market"
description: |
  The new search engine is a personalized, small system that
  collects search information from different search engines
  and then integrates it in one SERP. It can attract niche
  customers, giving them the sum of what Google, Yahoo, MSN
  and other giants can't give from one usable and intuitive
  interface. Zumber.com's unique value is in it's search
  engine model. It is simple, fast and relevant and brings a
  lot of marketing opportunities.
keywords:
  - search engine
  - custom search
  - search API
  - personalized search engine
  - google
  - yahoo
  - msn
---

TechnoPark Corp., a custom software development company from Florida, finished the creation of the 
configurable and personalized search engine. The product is available at www.zumber.com domain.

TechnoPark Corp. plans to work with the niche search engine market during the next few years and 
already has a contract with a German company to develop new niche search engine technology.

The search engine market is a market that never stands still. It is very young, but powerful and 
profitable. Search engines pro se became a very rich channel for marketers and for prospect 
attraction. Google, Yahoo!, MSN Search now are the sources of all information about the products and 
services. From some point search engines can form a stable marketing position and either help to 
build your business or to destroy it.

When speaking about search advertising, we can't neglect to say that it has the most significant 
share of all on-line advertising. As IAB (Interactive Advertising Bureau) had shown in its reports, 
near 41 percent of all online advertising in 2007 was spent on search advertising. Research firm 
ZenithOptimedia predicts US online ad spending to grow 23.4% in 2008. Global ad spending online will 
rise 26.5% in 2008 to $47.7 bln.

TechnoPark Corp. provides the service of project management in software projects, banding 
programmers, analysts, architects, testers and artitsts together in virtual teams. Due to a number 
of patent-pending methods of project organization, estimation and coordination TechnoPark Corp. is 
achieving efficiency and effectiveness in the software development marketplace.
