---
layout: article
date: 2008-03-20
permalink: about/news/year2008/iptv
label: Video On Demand
title: "Technopark Corp. Helps Deliver \"Video On Demand\" Over The Internet."
description: |
  TechnoPark Corp. will Create Customizable Platform Software
  for IPTV Translations.
keywords:
  - software development
---

Naples, FL, March 19, 2008 - TechnoPark Corp. announces it will create customizable platform
software for IPTV translations. This software will allow their South American client to deliver
video over the Internet.

Over the next five months, TechnoPark Corp. will act as project managers, system analyzers, and
development architects for the Video on Demand (VoD) system scheduled to handle almost unlimited
amount of simultaneous customers.

"As software developers, IPTV's market niche has great potential for us," says Arthur Petrenko,
Marketing Director of TechnoPark Corp. "We believe that TV and movies over the Internet will replace
DVD's very soon. Our company is going to get valuable experience in this niche."

TechnoPark's client, the South America VoD provider, will connectcustomers to over 10 thousand films
and TV channels. With TechnoPark's customizable platform software system, publishers, moviemakers
and online TV companies will have the ability to deliver video, films, TV channels, cartoons, and
many other media formats through the Internet. It will also enable the South America client to
create a pay-per-view or pay per month business model.

TechnoPark Corp. will release the first version of the IPTV software platform in June of 2008. At
this time, the name of the client, and more details on the features of the TechnoPark Corp.
software, will be available.
