---
layout: article
date: 2014-08-08
permalink: about/news/year2008/iso9001
title: "Technopark Corp. Announces Iso 9001:2000 Certification"
description: |
  TechnoPark Corp. ensures quality by meeting ISO standards.
keywords:
  - software development
---

Naples, FL, January 28, 2008 - On January 28, 2008, TechnoPark Corp. successfully announced their 
ISO 9001:2000 certification.

<png style="border: solid 1px #7d8f9b; float: left; padding: 0px;          margin-right: 15px; margin-top: 15px; margin-bottom: 10px">//images/certificate</png>

TechnoPark Corp., a custom software development company, specializes in web systems, VoIP 
technologies, enterprise application integration, and data warehousing. Their outsourcing software 
development services are specifically designed to be customer friendly, which is why certification 
was so valuable to TechnoPark Corp.

"This is a very important event for us," says Arthur Petrenko, a marketing director for TechnoPark 
Corp. While always maintaining the highest levels of self-enforced standards, TechnoPark Corp. 
sought the ISO 9001:2000 certification in order to offer outside proof that their processes are of 
the best quality to their clients.

For TechnoPark Corp., following the ISO standards means there is a verification of their internal 
quality management systems. ISO 9001:2000 certification is specifically intended for organizations 
that develop or provide services. In joining the ranks of other ISO certified entities throughout 
the world, TechnoPark Corp. can guarantee that it has the systems and processes in place to meet the 
needs of consumers and users.

TechnoPark Corp. achieved certification by working with Moody International, a global organization 
specializing in leading their clients through the process of certification.
