---
layout: article
date: 2014-08-08
permalink: about/news/year2008/patent2
title: "Technopark Reveals Quality Of Process For Software Development"
description: |
  Patent Pending for TechnoPark: Method for Measuring Quality
  of Process
keywords:
  - patent
  - quality of process
  - metrics
  - software metrics
---

Naples, FL, December 18, 2008: TechnoPark Corporation (TPC) announces they have filed for a patent 
with the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO). To ensure the quality of their process, 
TPC created an original procedure that includes a quality requirements definition, quality metrics 
collection, numeric calculations and methods for team motivation.

By calculating requirement weights, TPC has created software called "thePanel" which allows software 
developers to accurately predict the quality of their process. Once the necessary calculations are 
made, they are delivered to project managers, senior managers and project stakeholders.

Says Arthur Petrenko, TechnoPark Corp.'s Marketing Director, "This method and automated process is 
at the core of our business. It gives us an advantage and allows us to be unique in the quality we 
provide to our customers. Our invention makes us the only company in the market offering an 
automated quality of process calculation through the entire software project.

By delivering a dependable prediction of the quality of process, all parties involved in a project 
understand the end goal and how everyone will work together to achieve that end goal. The approach 
works for individual projects and for businesses trying to maintain multiple processes. The method 
for measuring quality of process has already helped TPC save 10-40% on their costs and increased 
team motivation in 10 projects during 2008.

The application to the USPTO was filed on November 4th 2008 and has a pending number of 12/264,370. 
This method is going to be patented by the European Patent Office (EPO) next year. Submitting the 
Quality of Process patent to the US Patent and Trademark Office follows a series of steps over the 
past year that TPC has taken to fortify their reputation with their clients and to secure their 
intellectual property. These steps include pending patents and achieving ISO 9001:2000 certification.

TechnoPark Corp. is a US-based outsourcing software development company with development centers 
across the globe, including the Ukraine, India and China.
