---
layout: article
date: 2006-12-11
permalink: about/news/year2006/news14
title: "Coaching Gets Easy With New Basketball Software"
description: |
  A new software product developed by TechnoPark Corp. has
  been released. The product enables easy visual coaching and
  game strategy planning.
keywords:
  - software development
---

Realistic graphics and a wide variety of available actions, directions and models make the new 
software "Basketball Blueprint" a great solution for coaches looking for a fun, easy way to teach 
basketball drills and plays. The product is a .NET application providing a virtual basketball game 
with a great number of variants.

Basketball coaches are the software's target audience. Taking into account that about 70% people are 
visual learners, coaches often face the problem of misunderstanding when drawing up plays the 
traditional way on chalkboards or dry-erase boards. Thus, a tool for vivid illustration of play 
tactics is a great solution.

With Basketball Blueprint, coaches are able to create dynamic basketball drills and plays and 
present them with vivid full color graphic animation.

Basketball Blueprint allows the user to model a basketball play or drill, which includes viewing an 
object (player, ball, etc.) from different angles, placing and moving players, making passes and 
shots, drawing arrows and other indicators in order to explain the situation, and showing the play 
or drill in motion. Each play or drill can be saved. The software is supported by a website where 
users can upload and download their files and thus share their experience and ideas.

The software is able to convert any saved drill or play into a printer-friendly format. This allows 
a coach to print out a step by step storyboard and illustrate the strategy visually to his team. The 
product is now being marketed on the Internet.

By now, Basketball Blueprint has received feedback from coaches who had already tried it.

"Teaches the "big picture" without being too complicated. Other coaches are commenting that my 
players have an excellent understanding of the game. Basketball Blueprint is helping me take their 
skills to the next level," says Joe Alsman, basketball coach in Boone Terre, MO.

Basketball Blueprint is available at .

The product development was outsourced to the Ukraine. The software has been introduced by 
outsourcing software development company TechnoPark Corp. "The project seemed to be easy, however it 
took much effort to make the game as realistic as possible. After the Basketball Blueprint release 
we have monitored customers' feedback, and now we think about starting development of the second 
version of the software basing on end-users' feedback." said Olga Totskaya, Project Manager at 
TechnoPark Corp.

The software is easy-to-use and no special knowledge is needed. It will be useful for professional 
and amateur basketball coaches as well as for basketball fans.

The project was developed as a standalone .Net application (Microsoft .Net Platform 2.0).
