---
layout: article
date: 2006-09-04
permalink: about/news/year2006/news24
tags: news
title: "New Generation Software For Voip"
description: |
  TechnoPark Corp. starts development of multifunctional
  platform for traffic trading.
keywords:
  - software development
---

 *

IP-telephony market faces the grand problem connected with provision of well organized traffic
trading process. New generation VoIP exchange software is expected to solve the problem.

IP telephony is a relatively new kind of telecommunication activity. It emerged in the 90's and
succeeded in competing with traditional kinds of voice-to-voice communication. Still, the
intermediaries supress the market's development with their high tariffs and limited capabilities.
That leads to an increase in service costs for the final customers and decreases the number of
available routes. As a result, profits of both sellers (terminators) and buyers (originators) fall.

According to industry experts, IP telephony market tends to eliminate intermediaries which may lead
to price-cutting for customers.

Until recently, clearing houses have been the most popular intermediaries in VoIP traffic trading.
However, even though they assume the lion's share of trading job and spare the exchange participants
most routine troubles, clearing houses have a number of grave disadvantages and run the gauntlet.
Having bought traffic from a terminator, they are able to sell it for a much higher price. Opponents
of clearing houses argue that they are an effective money-making scheme generating a questionable value.

IP Telephony Exchange is a new model of traffic exchange. It is already employed in the U.S. and
western Europe, but is not widely used yet. De facto VoIP Exchange is an online marketplace for
traffic trading with a clear market pricing basis. The model is targeted to providing more freedom
to terminators and originators, therefore it is gaining popularity worldwide.

This gradation from intermediary to close cooperation proves that IP telephony market success is
becoming dependent on VoIP exchange software developers. VoIP exchange software must meet a number
of requirements including every aspect of operation, such as high-quality connection, failure free
compliance of equipment of any manufacturer, online statistics, etc. The automation of the process
is another vital issue. Despite the claimed automation, the majority of online marketplaces are
managed manually now.

New generation VoIP exchange software is expected to solve the numerous problems of IP telephony
market participants. Technopark Corp.'s new product is an innovative solution. The VoIP platform
development project has been launched in August 2006.

Dynamical routing will be the main innovation. Dynamical routing is an ability to switch to a better
quality channel automatically. In so doing the system is planned to select a channel with the same
capabilities and price. Dynamical routing may improve connection quality without increasing cost of
a call. No VoIP exchange has provided such opportunity until now.

The project is also aimed to enable processing the requests for origination ortermination of
connections through H.323 and SIP protocols and provide a number of new useful functions as well as
those already implemented by other exchanges. The software will enable overall control over the
origination and termination session processes, access to detailed statistics reports for each
session, supervision over service quality, advising operators on the choice of appropriate
equipment, etc. The TechnoPark Corp.'s VoIP Exchange Platform is also planned to have integrated
billing system.

Final testing and product release are scheduled for October 2006. The product will be introduced to
the U.S. market.
