---
layout: article
date: 2006-12-13
permalink: about/news/year2006/news13
title: "Voipx: In Voip Traffic Exchange Software Talks"
description: |
  TechnoPark Corp. finished development of new VoIP Traffic
  Exchange Platform. The exchange is available at voipx.com.
keywords:
  - software development
---

The introduction of new VoIP exchange platform is a desired event. Demand for high-quality IP 
Telephony Exchanges is stimulated by the fast growth of the industry.

According to the figures posted on, subscribers to VoIP services grew 18 percent to 8.2 million 
users in the third quarter of 2006. VoIP revenues are up two and a half times to $732 million across 
the U.S., compared to last year at $298 million. Predictions have the market growth projected at 1.5 
million new subscriptions in the fourth quarter to round out the year with 9.7 million or nearly 8.7 
percent of all U.S. households.

LearningGuide Solutions studied the user's intentions about VoIP. The poll, conducted between June 
and October 2006, found that 30% were already using IP telephones, 34% intended to in the next 
twelve months and 16% were considering it.

"This is in an increase on previous expectations of the growth of VoIP, signalling further change in 
the workplace," said Cees Louwers, Managing Director, LearningGuide Solutions. "Users will be faced 
with changes in how to use the most fundamental piece of office equipment, as telephones become part 
of the office network."

Voice over Internet Protocol is developing in aggressive competitive environment. Its customers and 
profits are growing fast, however the competition with POTS (Plain Old Telephone Systems) is still 
severe. Having a number of advantages like cheap or even free connection, IP Telephony often falls 
behind the POTS in quality and security of connection. The problem is within eyeshot of VoIP 
exchange software developers, and efforts targeted to its solution are made.

VoIPX.com developed by Technopark Corp. is a new generation platform heedful of the latest demands 
of IP Telephony. The system is user-oriented thus it is aimed at fulfilling of a number of basic 
features: user-friendly interface, comprehensive billing, quality of calls, and security.

The platform is developed with the use of modern programming technologies enabling its high 
scalability. The technologies include Ajax, used for interface design, and powerful PostgreSQL database.

Dynamical routing provides system's switching to better-quality channel automatically. In so doing 
the system is able to select a channel with the same capabilities and price. Dynamical routing may 
improve connection quality without increasing cost of a call.

Modularity of system's architecture enables making software components updates in order to maintain 
the proper level of security.

The software enables processing the requests for origination/termination of connections through 
H.323 and SIP protocols. With VoIPX.com, user can control origination and termination session 
process, get detailed statistics reports for each session, supervise service quality, be advised on 
the choice of appropriate equipment, etc. The Exchange Platform has an easy-to-use and comprehensive 
integrated billing system.

VoIPX Platform has already been tested and released by outsourcing software development company 
TechnoPark Corp., and is available at .
