---
layout: article
date: 2014-08-08
permalink: about/news/year2006/news17
title: "Makenewmedia.com Releases New Smart Pay Per Click System Clickfather"
description: |
  MakeNewMedia.com introduces a search pay-per-click system
  able to analyze bid prices for every request and select the
  most profitable variant. The software development was
  outsourced to Ukrainian TechnoPark Corp.
keywords:
  - software development
---

This fall, MakeNewMedia.com released new Pay Per Click search engine system. The software was 
developed by the Ukrainian outsourcing software development company TechnoPark Corp.

The software is aimed at redirecting traffic to other Pay Per Click systems and providing affiliate 
webmasters with search tools and quality search results for their websites users. With the variety 
of PPC search systems, webmasters wonder how they can chase word prices and compare them. Prices for 
request words differ from system to system, so analyzing all of them and finding the most profitable 
variant sounds impossible. ClickFather software is aimed at solving the problem.

is a Pay Per Click search engine system where every search result carries a bid value. It is the 
search PPC system with analyzer feature. ClickFather is able to gather data about bid prices for any 
request word from other Pay Per Click systems. The system selects the most profitable variant for 
every search request and redirects traffic from affiliate website to the sponsor offering the best price.

"ClickFather knows how much our partners pay for a click on every keyword. If your user searches for 
the keyword "casino" ClickFather checks the bid price on all partners and sends the user to the 
partner with the highest payout," explains Markus Lang, Director of MakeNewMedia.com.

ClickFather.com collects fees from sponsors for redirected traffic and pays fee to affiliate 
webmasters. Besides profits, webmasters get powerful search tool producing results based on analysis 
of numerous search engines results. From MakeNewMedia.com's Management, "The project will help 
people who are serious about online business."

The system is also able to produce reports, real-time statistics and search XML feed for affiliate webmasters.

The software development process was outsourced to the Ukrainian outsourcing company TechnoPark 
Corp. "We have an experience of developing such projects. In fact, provision of reliable anti-fraud 
protection was one of the core issues. We solved the problem by integrating a number of unique 
anti-fraud filters to the system. The system of filters is unique and it has been developed in 
TechnoPark Corp. by our engineers," says Denis Maruda, Project Manager at TechnoPark Corp.

The project was developed on LAMP (Linux+Apache+MySQL+PHP) platform and has been deployed by 
TechnoPark Corp.'s engineers successfully. The system is available at .
