---
layout: article
date: 2014-08-08
permalink: process/quality/coq
label: Cost of Quality
term: quality
title: "How Much We Pay For Quality"
intro: "Learn how much quality effects the total Budget"
description: |
  Learn how much quality effects the total Budget
keywords:
  - cost of quality
next_step: process/cost/budget
---

[Quality](/process/quality) is what costs us money and what you pay for. Quality is measured as
amount of defect-free functionality related to defective functionality. Quality is measured in
percentages. Our contract says that 95% is acceptable Quality.

A [Defect](/process/quality/defect) is a non-conformity of
[Deliverables](/process/warranty/deliverables) to [Specification](/process/scope/specification). In
other words, the software product does not work as specified. Defects shall be revealed by the
project team before software product is delivered to you.

While you and end-users perceive Defects through software interfaces, the majority of Defects do not
reside in software itself. This is where Defects normally lie (in order of severity):

 * Software development contract
 * [Vision](/process/scope/vision)
 * [SRS](/process/scope/srs)
 * [Risk List](/process/risk/risklist)
 * [Iteration](/process/time/schedule)
 * Schedule and [Plans](/process/time/iteration)
 * Architecture
 * Design
 * Software code
 * Test Plan

Software code itself is one of the least critical components in the total Cost Of Quality
structure. Defects in software code are the least expensive to remove.

There are a number of prevention methods we use in order to reveal and remove Defects before they
become critical or fatal.

  * [Peer reviews](/process/quality/peerreview) of SRS, Schedule, Risk List and architecture
  * Prototyping on early Iterations
  * Strict guidelines and manuals for analysts and architects
  * Industry standards and formats (UML, IEEE, ISO, RUP, XML, etc.)
  * Periodical Quality Assurance (QA) audits

All prevention methods are used before [unit-testing](/process/quality/unit),
[system testing](/process/quality/system) and
[manual testing](/process/quality/manual).
Prevention methods are performed by programmers and testers when software is being implemented.
