---
layout: article
date: 2014-08-08
permalink: about/news/year2002/oldnews3
title: "Requirements-based Software Development Process Introduced In Technopark Corp."
description: |
  The process of integration and documentation of a
  requirements-based software development approach has been
  finished at TechnoPark Corp.
keywords:
  - software development
---

Now the company offers the new level of services to its customers.

The final introduction of this new approach to the software development process was prefaced by 
three months of personnel training which included tutorials and practical seminars for project 
managers, system analysts, software architects, and software developers.

The decision to study and use requirements-based software development process arose from recognition 
of its importance. Requirements-based software development is a guarantee that the software product 
will meet customer's requirements when it is developed. It is based on the assumption that exact 
requirements for the software system are not known until the system is developed. That is why the 
company instituted iterative approach as grounds for requirements-based development.

With the introduction of this software development model, requirements management and becomes one of 
the core disciplines in company operations. Project managers, system analysts, and developers are 
involved in requirements management and requirements change management.

The requirements-based approach provides that all requirements must be listed in specification 
document and approved by the customer before the start of implementation. Then, during the whole 
software development process, a certain piece of workable software is released each iteration, and 
this source code is tied to certain requirement(s). Frequent releases and connection with certain 
requirements assure that the software is being developed according to the customer's vision. In 
addition, this approach eases and clarifies Requirements Change Management.

Now, requirements-based process is already used in TechnoPark Corp. adding value to the company's customers.
