---
layout: article
date: 2009-06-23
permalink: innovations/risk-game
label: Risk Game
title: "Risk Game"
intro: "Learn how we optimize risk identification process using our unique Risk Game approach"
tags: innovations
description: |
  The described method is a risk identification scenario for
  software development projects, where the project team is
  multi-lingual and distributed, time for the risk
  identification meeting is limited, meetings are recurrent
  and an amount of risks required is bigger than a hundred.
keywords:
  - risk game
  - risk identification
  - risk management
  - distributed risk identification
  - distributed risk management
  - risk in software development
next_step: innovations/metrics
---

**Disclaimer**: This web page contains just an abstract of a research
report that will be presented on [SEAFOOD 2009](http://seafood.inf.ethz.ch/2009/) conference
in Zurich, Switzerland, on 3rd of July, 2009. Materials of the conference will be
published by Springer Verlag.

One of the most important "process area" in project management is risk
management, which includes risk planning, risk identification,
qualitative and quantitative analysis, risk response planning and risk monitoring.
The risk identification process provides
the material for risk analysis and risk response planning.

A raw list of
risks, that shall include hundreds of them, can
be generated by different methods, including
brainstorming,
historical records,
checklists and templates,
risk charting,
objectives-based,
scenario-based,
taxonomy-based,
conduct a "pre-mortem",
Affinity Diagrams,
Delphi technique,
expert interviews,
Nominal Group Technique, and others.

Every method has its own advantages and
drawbacks. However, any of them
when applied to a project with the following constraints, will fail
to produce a required result:
a) project team is multi-lingual and distributed (online text chats only),
b) risk identification meetings must take less than one hour,
c) meetings are held regularly (every iteration), and
d) each meeting shall produce at least a hundred risks.

Existing methods will fail in these circumstances
because of (most common causes):
a) Inattention;
b) Language barriers;
c) Unavoidable personal criticism;
d) Weariness after repeating meetings; and
e) Untrained risk identifiers.

A good solution to the outlined problems could be a method that will reduce
the amount of efforts required for risk identification, at the same time
increasing personnel engagement and motivation.

## Method

The purpose of this method is to increase the effectiveness of
risk identification meetings in software development projects, reduce
the time and effort required for the meetings and make the meetings possible
to be held in online text chat form.

The meeting facilitator prepares and presents to the meeting participants
the list of five key project objectives and a list of risk sources (up to dozen).
The objectives go horizontally, while risk sources vertically. The
matrix becomes a field for the Risk Game.

The rules of the Risk Game are:

  1. Facilitator announces the next row (risk source);
  2. Everyone invents risks for the given risk source;
  3. Facilitator chooses the winner for the row;
  4. Matrix gets the name of the winner in a corresponding cell;
  5. The person who has the most cells wins the game.

The meeting recorder maintains the list of all invented risks. This list is passed
to the facilitator by the end of the meeting.
The result of the Risk Game is a long list of raw unsorted risks, which will
be used by the project management for quantitative and qualitative risk analysis.

The proposed method is more effective than other existing methods when
meeting time is limited (less than one hour) and
a big list of risks is required (more than a hundred).
The method is more effective in such circumstances
because it quickly involves everybody in the process,
converts individual criticism into a fair competition and
stimulates group thinking.
