---
layout: article
date: 2010-07-21
permalink: innovations/pdd
label: PDD
title: "Puzzle Driven Development (pdd)"
intro: "One of the biggest problems in parallel distributed programming has been solved with a patent-pending method called Puzzle Driven Development (PDD)."
tags: innovations
description: |
  One of the biggest problems in parallel distributed
  programming has been solved with a patent-pending method
  called Puzzle Driven Development (PDD).
keywords:
  - puzzle driven development
  - unit testing
  - distributed development
  - parallel programming
  - remote development
  - delayed branches
  - branching
  - version control
  - branches in version control
next_step: innovations/test-planning
---

The innovation is pending patent in United States
        Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO), patent application
        \textbf{no. 12/840,306}.

        Distributed software development is rapidly becoming the norm for
        technology companies.
        The ability of a company to successfully carry out its tasks
        depends on the appropriate combination of organizational
        structure, processes, and collaborative tools.
        Recent studies show that existing collaborative software tools
        are used mostly as ``shared repositories'', while
        discussions take place outside of the tool in e-mails,
        chats or phone calls.

        Consider an example where a programmer was assigned
        to implement a new software function. He created a new
        separate version control ``branch'', and
        was aware of ``continuous integration'' principle
        advocated in the project. The implementation was planned to take
        a few days, but he faced a few problems
        and raised a number of questions during development. Once his questions
        were answered and the branch was ready for
        integration with the main stream, he realized that
        the main stream received a number of important changes.
        Synchronization of the branch with the main stream took some time,
        and produced new questions and problems. After a number of
        such synchronization iterations, the branch was considered as out-dated
        and was closed.

        The example illustrates a ``delayed branch'' problem, which does not
        have a solution in existing software development methodologies.
        There are a number of possible workarounds, including:
            \begin{inparaenum}[\itshape a\upshape)]
            \item breaking the principle of continuous integration and merging of a ``broken'' branch with the main stream;
            \item closing the branch after the first problem or question, in order to minimize time and cost losses; or
            \item pausing the branch and hoping for the best.
            \end{inparaenum}
        None of these workarounds really solve the problem.
        However, a solution is needed because its absence can effectively
        ruin the development of an enterprise project, especially if the team
        is remotely distributed.

    \section*{Summary}

    	The invented ``PDD'' includes a specific method and software that
    	resolves the problem of ``delayed branches'' conflict in
    	concurrent distributed software development, and in many other types of software
    	development projects.

    	Every time a developer is working with a branch and sees a problem
    	or a question that needs the participation of another programmer,
    	he implements a temporary solution that keeps the code compilable.
    	He marks the place in the code with \texttt{@todo} tag (called ``puzzle'') and merges
    	the branch into \texttt{trunk}. The ``puzzle''
    	includes the identifier of a task he was working with. As long as the
    	``puzzle'' stays in source code, a project manager considers the task as
    	incomplete and pending resolution. The project manager assigns ``puzzle'' resolution
    	to other team members. When all ``puzzles'' are resolved, the project manager
    	returns the task back to the programmer, asking him to continue with development.

    	The key advantage of the PDD method, comparing with all other known approaches,
    	is the absence of long branches. Implementation of every task, no matter
    	how difficult it is, takes a few hours in one iteration. Then the task
    	is set to pending state and new ``puzzles'' are merged into \texttt{trunk}. Project
    	planning becomes more predictable and simple, since the project manager is
    	dealing with a large amount of small isolated tasks, instead of long and risky
    	activities. With this method, cost and scope control also becomes more effective.

    	Properly used ``puzzles'' becomes the main management and communication
    	mechanism in a distributed software project, replacing e-mails, online
    	discussions and phone calls. Moreover, the PDD software
    	collects ``puzzles'' from source code and builds short-term
    	plans of key development tasks.

    \section*{Example}

    	The diagram compares two approaches visually
    	explaining source code repository changes and merges. Workflow \textbf{A} uses PDD concept
    	and creates three branches during the development of the feature. Workflow \textbf{B} uses
    	a ``delayed branch'' approach and creates just one branch during the development
    	of the same feature. The picture clearly indicates that Workflow \textbf{B} has much higher
    	risk of conflict during branch merging with the \texttt{trunk}.

        \begin{tikzpicture}
            \newcounter{revenv}
            \setcounter{revenv}{0}
            \newcommand{\rev}[3][0]{
                \path (env\therevenv{}rev0)+(#2,#1) node [revstyle] (env\therevenv{}rev#2) {r#2};
                \revlink{#2}{#3}
            }
            \newcommand{\revlink}[3][--]{
                \draw [revlinkstyle] (env\therevenv{}rev#3) #1 (env\therevenv{}rev#2);
            }
            \newcommand{\revzero}[1]{
                \node[coordinate] (env\therevenv{}rev0) at #1 {};
            }
            \newenvironment{revisions}{
                \stepcounter{revenv}
                \tikzstyle{revstyle}=[circle, draw=black, fill=white, font=\small\ttfamily, very thick, inner sep=0em, text centered, text width=1.8em]
                \tikzstyle{revlinkstyle}=[-&gt;, draw=black, very thick, rounded corners]
            }
            {
            }
            \draw[dashed, very thin, draw=black!50] (0,0) grid (13,7);
            \begin{revisions}
                \revzero{(1,5)}
                \node [left] at (1,5) {\textbf{\large{}Workflow A}};
                \rev{1}{0}
                \rev[1]{2}{1}
                \rev{3}{1}
                \rev{4}{3}
                \rev{5}{4}
                    \revlink[{-|}]{5}{2}
                \rev{6}{5}
                \rev[1]{7}{6}
                \rev{8}{6}
                    \revlink{8}{7}
                \rev[1]{9}{8}
                \rev{10}{8}
                \rev{11}{10}
                    \revlink[{-|}]{11}{9}
            \end{revisions}

            \begin{revisions}
                \revzero{(1,1)}
                \node [left] at (1,1) {\textbf{\large{}Workflow B}};
                \rev{1}{0}
                \rev[1]{2}{1}
                \rev{3}{1}
                \rev{4}{3}
                \rev{6}{4}
                \rev{8}{6}
                \rev{9}{8}
                \rev[1]{5}{2}
                \rev[1]{7}{5}
                    \revlink[{-|}]{9}{7}
            \end{revisions}
        \end{tikzpicture}

    	\textbf{Workflow B} in details (the workflow is a simplified example of a real-life software project):
    	The source code repository is in revision \texttt{1}, and the programmer
    	receives a task from the project manager and starts a new branch in order to implement it.
    	The programmer makes initial implementation and commits changes with \texttt{2}. Suddenly,
    	the programmer understands that he does not have enough information in order to complete
    	the task, so he asks the project manager for help.
    	The project manager decides that the architect should be helpful in this situation and
    	forwards the request to him. Once the answer is ready, the programmer receives it
    	(by e-mail).
    	According to the information received, the programmer makes his next commit to the
    	repository. While the programmer was waiting for the answer, the repository received
    	two changes from other team members, in revisions \texttt{3} and \texttt{4}. Thus, the programmer
    	commits his changes in revision \texttt{5}. Now, the feature is almost finished and only one final
    	change has to be done before returning it back to the \texttt{trunk}. The programmer
    	makes that change and commits it to the repository, in revision \texttt{7}. The project manager
    	is notified about the finished feature and merges the branch into the \texttt{trunk}
    	in \texttt{9}. Revisions \texttt{7} and \texttt{8} were committed to the repository by other
    	project team members. The distance between merging the branch into
    	the \texttt{trunk} and starting the branch is 7 revisions.

    	To the contrary, \textbf{Workflow A} looks differently: The repository is in revision \texttt{1}
    	and the programmer makes her first changes in \texttt{2} (similar to Workflow B). Now the
    	programmer understands the necessity of additional information and refers to the
    	project manager. The programmer makes the branch ready for merging into \texttt{trunk}
    	by means of ``stubs'' and properly commented places, which are not implemented yet. The
    	project manager merges the branch into \texttt{trunk} in revision \texttt{5} (the distance
    	is 2 revisions and the risk of conflict is much lower than in Workflow B). The project
    	manager decides who is going to resolve the question asked by the programmer, finds the
    	right person, assigns this problem to him and waits for the answer. The answer
    	comes in a new branch, revision \texttt{7}, where the architect (author of the answer) makes comment
    	right inside the source code. This branch immediately goes into \texttt{trunk}, in revision \texttt{8}.
    	The project manager returns the task back to the programmer and asks him to finish the task,
    	since all answers are received and embedded in the source code. The programmer starts a new
    	branch and implements the code she could not implement before. The programmer makes
    	changes in revision \texttt{9} and the project manager merges them into \texttt{trunk} in \texttt{11}.
    	The longest distance is 2 revisions and the risk of conflict during merging is much smaller
    	than in Workflow B.

    	It is obvious that a long-lasting branch (as in Workflow B) will cause higher
    	risks of conflicts during merging into the \texttt{trunk}. With shorter branches,
    	every programmer has more flexibility and freedom to make risky changes without
    	a high risk of being rejected during merging.
