---
layout: article
date: 2014-08-08
permalink: about/news/year2005/oldnews10
title: "New M-payment Provider, Mpps, Enters The Market"
description: |
  New mobile payment processing system, developed by
  TechnoPark Corp. to be introduced soon.
keywords:
  - software development
---

Analysts forecast the mobile technologies will boom in the next few years. With the growth of the 
m-commerce market and the demand for mobile related offers, the new mobile payment service provider 
enters the market offering easy and secure payments through mobile phones.

The recent years showed rapid growth of mobile payments market. It is stimulated by the growing 
number of mobile phone users, consumer demand for comfort, and technological boosts. Due to this, 
payments through mobile phone are about to become a widespread payment tool like credit and debit 
cards. According to the forecasts annual revenue from m-commerce market will exceed $ 80 billion in 2009.

MPPS is a new mobile payment processing system which will offer the improved opportunities for 
mobile payments and provide Europeans with unmatched m-commerce services.

MPPS software is now at the final stage of testing. It is planned to be released in the middle of 
2006. Before the official release, a pre-launch presentation of the service is available at .

The service will enable every mobile phone owner to pay for goods and services with a mobile phone. 
The system provides the high level of security of data storage and transfer. MPPS mobile payment 
processing system will be suitable for both macro and micro payments.

The service will operate in Europe. More details are provided at .
