---
layout: article
date: 2014-08-08
permalink: process/time
label: Time Management
term: schedule
title: "How In-time Delivery Is Assured"
intro: "Review our time management methods"
description: |
  Iterative time management gives project team and our
  customer more flexibility in plans. In the same time it
  gives more stability for the whole project.
keywords:
  - time management
  - time management plan
  - time tracking
  - project plan
  - network diagram
  - schedule
  - iteration
  - iteration plan
  - software outsourcing
  - offshore development
  - distributed programming
next_step: process/cost
---

Talented and motivated engineers, programmers, designers and architects may fail to complete a
project and miss important milestones if they don't have a project manager who manages time
properly. Nowadays in the software industry this happens during the course of many projects. We pay
great attention to planning, monitoring, and controlling of time in our projects.

Right after a [ROM Estimate](/process/cost/rom) is approved and the project is started, we plan the
[Inception Phase](/process/time/inception). Usually, when the project is started, there is a lack of
details about system requirements. Accurate planning can be done only after the scope definition and
risk analysis are completed, that's why we need to conduct the Inception Phase before
[Schedule](/process/time/schedule) development.

The main goal of our Inception Phase is to create [Specification](/process/scope/specification),
identify [Risks](/process/risks), calculate [Budget](/process/cost/budget), and build a Schedule.
Sometimes, in order to define the Schedule, it's necessary to develop a baseline of key
architectural software concepts during the Inception Phase.

[LCO Milestone](/process/time/lco) happens following the end of Inception Phase, when the
Specification is ready and a Schedule is defined. The Schedule is a one-page table that lists the
[Iterations](/process/time/iteration) and Milestones. As soon as the customer signs the Schedule, it
obtains the status of a contractual provision and can't be missed.

<tikz>
\begin{tikzpicture}
    [auto, thick]

    \newcommand{\thewidth}{2.2cm}
    \newcommand{\theheight}{1cm}

    \tikzstyle{iteration} = [block,
        text width=\thewidth,
        anchor=north west,
        minimum height=\theheight]

    \tikzstyle{vline} = [dashed, draw=tpcBlue]

    \foreach \x/\title in {0/{Inception Phase}, 1/{Interation 2}, 2/{Interation 3}, 3/{Interation 4}, 4/{Last Iteration}} {
        \node [iteration] (Iteration\x) at (\x*\thewidth,-\x*\theheight) {\title};
        \draw [vline] (\x*\thewidth,\theheight) -- (\x*\thewidth,-6*\theheight);
    }

    \draw [line, triangle 60-triangle 60] (0, -6*\theheight) -- node [above, fill=white, above=-0.3cm] {project lifecycle} (5*\thewidth, -6*\theheight);

    \node [fill=white, above left=of Iteration0.north] (note1) {Project start};
    \node [fill=white, above=2cm of Iteration2, text width=4cm] (note2) {Specification, Schedule, Budget, and Risks are approved};
    \node [fill=white, above=2cm of Iteration4, text width=4cm] (note3) {Iteration Acceptance Meeting with new Build and project tracking data};
    \node [fill=white, below=1.3cm of Iteration4, text width=4cm] (note4) {Acceptance Statement is signed, project is closed};

    \draw [-angle 90] (note1) -- (Iteration0.west);
    \draw [-angle 90] (note2) -- (Iteration0.east);
    \draw [-angle 90] (note3) -- (Iteration1.east);
    \draw [-angle 90] (note3) -- (Iteration2.east);
    \draw [-angle 90] (note3) -- (Iteration3.east);
    \draw [-angle 90] (note4) -- (Iteration4.south east);

\end{tikzpicture}
    </tikz>

The objective of each Iteration is to implement, test, and deliver a certain part of the product
functionality. Iteration normally takes 8-12 working days and starts with a fine-grained Iteration
Plan, which is shown to you and is used to track the progress during the project.

The Iteration Plan is focused on the Iteration objective as defined in the Schedule, and uses the
WBS and Network Diagram methods for planning.

By the end of each Iteration, we conduct an Iteration Acceptance Meeting, where a
[SPI](/process/time/spi) is presented to you in conjunction with the risk monitoring results. The
project is transparently monitored and tracked with an SPI, which is based on the functional
requirements and their status of completion.

Any changes to the Milestones will produce a new version of the Schedule, which you shall sign to
make it effective.
