---
layout: article
date: 2014-08-08
permalink: process/cost
label: Cost Management
term: rom
title: "Two-step Quotation Process"
intro: "Read how projects are quoted, estimated, and paid"
description: |
  We estimate cost of a project in two steps, minimizing the
  risk of over and under estimation. ROM estimate preceeds
  Budget.
keywords:
  - cost estimate
  - project cost
  - project cost management plan
  - ROM Estimate
  - budget
  - quotation
  - software outsourcing
  - offshore development
  - distributed programming
next_step: about/why
---

We do projects in fixed-price contracts, meaning that the price is defined according to
[scope](/process/scope) definition and is not changed unless there are changes to
[Specification](/process/scope/specification). We take all risks of cost overrun so that you pay
only the price defined in project [Budget](/process/cost/budget).

Our two-step quotation process has a number of important advantages:

 * Final budget is optimal, without extra costs and reserves
 * Guarantees "win-win" outcome for you and us
 * Avoids cost overrun
 * Guarantees project success

We calculate and communicate all project costs in staff-hours. Actual monetary size of project is a
multiple of staff-hours and [price per hour](/process/cost/prices).

Cost is estimated in two steps:

 * [ROM Estimate](/process/cost/rom) and Retainer
 * Budget

The ROM Estimate is provided to you in response to your informal request and is based on the
[Vision](/process/scope/vision) document. ROM Estimate gives a range (low and high boundary) of the
expected Budget. You approve the range and the project team performs
[requirements](/process/scope/requirement) gathering and analysis during the
[Inception Phase](/process/scope/inception).
These steps result in the creation of a [SRS](/process/scope/srs) document.

When the SRS is ready and you approved it, the project team estimates project Budget as an exact
amount of staff-hours. The Budget can only be within the range provided in ROM Estimate. Upon your
approval of the Budget, the project continues.

If you don't approve the Budget for any reason, you pay only the Retainer, which covers the efforts
for Requirements gathering and Specification development.

[Payments](/process/cost/model) are made according to Milestones defined in the
[Schedule](/process/time/schedule), which is approved together with the Budget.

Budget covers all costs, including programming, requirements analysis, management, project
management, architecture and design, testing and quality assurance.
