---
layout: article
date: 2014-08-08
permalink: process/quality
label: Quality Management
term: quality
title: "Quality Is Planned, Assured And Controlled"
intro: "Read about Quality Management and cost of quality we suggest"
description: |
keywords:
  - quality of code
  - quality of product
  - software testing
  - software quality
  - software outsourcing
  - offshore development
  - distributed programming
next_step: process/cost
---

Quality is the degree of conformance of [Deliverables](/process/warranty/deliverables) to
[Specification](/process/scope/specification). The goal of a project is to deliver software products
with an acceptable level of Quality on time. Acceptable, according to our software development
contract, means that Quality is 95% or greater.

Defects in software decrease the level of Quality and shall be removed by the project team. We take
preventive actions to minimize Defects. Revealed Defects are removed during project lifecycle.

An estimated number of Defects are planned when a project is started and is based on the amount of
Functional Requirements. Testers work with the software product until the estimated number of
Defects are found. This gives us confidence that software is delivered without critical hidden Defects.

Any type of software has an unlimited number of Defects. Some of these are critical and some are
minor. In the iterative and [incremental](/process/communication/incremental) delivery process we
use to find the planned amount of Defects, we provide an optimal service in the limited amount of
[time](/process/time) given. Regardless, all critical Defects are to be found and removed.

Defects are tracked in a Defects Tracking System, which you have an access to. During the whole
project lifecycle you may view Defects and add their own records to this database.
