---
layout: article
date: 2014-08-08
permalink: process/scope
label: Scope Management
term: scope
title: "Scope Is Defined By Specifications"
intro: "Learn how we specify Requirements and define product scope"
description: |
  Scope is defined by formal specifications that include
  functional requirements, non-functional requirements, use
  cases, error messages, interfaces.
keywords:
  - specification
  - functional requirement
  - non-functional requirement
  - scope
  - scope management plan
  - vision
  - ROM
    budget
  - feature
  - traceable
  - unambiguous
  - verifiable
  - software outsourcing
  - offshore development
  - distributed programming
next_step: process/risk
---

Boundaries of software products are defined by a set of [Requirements](/process/scope/requirement).
The software development team designs, implements, tests, and delivers these Requirements to you. A
Requirement is an atomic unit of a software product from the viewpoint of the user. As a rule,
Requirements are always correct, unambiguous, verifiable, and traceable. Requirements are numbered
and prioritized.

High-level user Requirements are called [Features](/process/scope/feature). Up to 10 Features can be
defined in any software project, regardless of the project size. Features are defined in the
[Vision](/process/scope/vision) document. The Vision is created before the project commences, and is
the basis for the [ROM Estimate](/process/cost/rom).

The Vision is developed right after you submit an informal request. Up to 5 hours are spent for
developing the Vision by a system analyst, regardless of the project size.

When a ROM Estimate is approved, an Alpha-Specification is created. Upon your approval, the
Alpha-Specification becomes a Beta-Specification. When the project begins and the
[Budget](/process/cost/budget) is approved (following a [LCO Milestone](/process/time/lco)), the
Beta-Specification becomes an effective [Specification](/process/scope/specification).

<tikz>
\usepgflibrary{shapes.symbols}
\begin{tikzpicture}
    [node distance = 2.5cm,
    auto, thick]

    \node [cloud, draw=tpcRed, cloud ignores aspect, fill=tpcRed!40] (request) {Informal Request};
    \node [block, text width=3cm, below of=request] (vision) {Vision};
    \node [block, text width=3cm, below of=vision] (srs) {SRS};
    \node [text centered, text width=3cm, below=1.5cm of srs] (scope) {Scope};

    \path [line] (request) -- (vision);
    \path [line] (vision) -- (srs);

    \draw [dashed, draw=tpcBlue] (request.east) -- (vision.east) -- (srs.east) -- +(270:2cm);
    \draw [dashed, draw=tpcBlue] (request.west) -- (vision.west) -- (srs.west) -- +(270:2cm);

    \draw [line, triangle 60-triangle 60] (scope.north west) -- (scope.north east);

\end{tikzpicture}
    </tikz>

A fully-dressed Specification is called a [SRS](/process/scope/srs) (Software Requirements
Specification) and is compliant with 'Recommended Practices for Software Requirements Specifications'.

The SRS includes a [Glossary](/process/scope/glossary), , Functional Requirements, and
Non-Functional Requirements.

All Functional Requirements are then listed in a requirements attributes spreadsheet, where all
necessary attributes for each Requirement are maintained.

Changes to the project scope can be made only by issuing new Specifications through a process called
[Change Requests](/process/scope/changerequest). Each Change Request implies that changes will be
made to the Budget, [Schedule](/process/time/schedule), and [Risks](/process/risk).
