---
layout: article
date: 2014-08-08
permalink: stories/avivo
label: Not our problem
title: "Not Our Problem"
description: |
  The main target for any of our projects is the customer's
  success. That's why sometimes we try to take our focus away
  from daily project problems and look at the situation from a
  higher point of view. From this point we can observe wider
  horizons and identify problems or even risks that can affect
  the project objectives.
keywords:
  - software development
---

The objective of the project was to create the system that would allow 
    the web-surfers to get support by clicking the banner. But the
    most important objective of the project for the customer was to get the 
    ability to sell such services.

    In the middle of implementation we noticed that the customer was 
    going to use one demo server, with low performance and reliability, to 
    demonstrate the system to potential buyers. Such a server was unable to 
    handle the system that was intended for high performance with a full load. 
    Hardware risks were not taken into account.

    Of course this was not our problem because the contract was signed and 
    it's not up to us to decide where the customer is going to use the system. But 
    the risk affected the key objective of our project -- the customer's success.

    That's why we notified him about this risk and suggested a more reliable 
    demo version of the system especially for demonstration purposes.

    The project was running close to the finish line. The Customer had found his first 
    client and asking us to force the work. He wanted to get the working system as 
    soon as possible. Under this time pressure we configured the system 
    at demo and work platform in a week. But after the first round of 
    negotiations the customer came back to us with an issue -- the demo 
    server system often died with some unexpected errors.

    In two days a more productive demo server was bought and the demo version 
    of system was configured. The second round of negotiations was finished with 
    triumph. The key objective was reached and the project was closed successfully.

    It's very important for us to help the customer be successful. The customer's 
    success is our triumph! That's why we worry about the customer's 
    risks and issues. When it comes to completing a project, we never have the attitude of "it's not our problem".
