---
layout: article
date: 2014-08-08
permalink: stories/pluzit
label: UAT vs. Manual
title: "User Acceptance Testing Instead Of Manual Testing, Sometimes It Works"
description: |
  There was a difficult web 2.0 system which was estimated in
  1100 staff-hours. None of the three previous software
  companies accepted that system due to several reasons, one
  of them was -- the client. He likes to test only the whole
  system with a detailed evaluation of each element.
keywords:
  - software development
---

After deep analysis two main risks for the project appeared -- normal completion of 
    the whole project itself and elaboration of clear SRS.

    The strategy for the key risks was mitigation. We had spent almost 1/3 of the total 
    management cost for elaboration risk strategy and prediction of effects.

    Near to the end of schedule when the system was implemented (all 130 requirements 
    were tested) we moved to stress and volume tests.  50 to 
    200 staff-hours were spent for those tests.

    Then "acceptance testing" followed. As mitigation for key risks we 
    spent \emph{150 (!)} staff hours for acceptance testing. The whole system was
    deployed on a test-platform and provided to the customer. As planned, the customer began 
    to make different remarks here and there, which were not in the SRS and were 
    not important for functionality itself, but should be fixed any way as the 
    customer said. With automatic and manual testing we found around 50 bugs, 
    but the customer found around 100 small and big remarks. 
    All his issues were registered as bugs and were fixed ASAP to start testing again.

    So, in total, risk management was correct and helped us to develop 
    and send that system.

    The 150 staff-hours that were spent for acceptance testing were nothing near the
    big loses that could have happened to our company if we had done manual 
    and automatic testing.

    As a result, the customer received his system and our company spent 
    only that money that we planned at the beginning.
