---
layout: article
date: 2014-08-08
permalink: stories/kip
label: Vague scope definition
title: "Clarification Of Vague Scope Definition In Messq Project"
description: |
  In the long lasting project MESSQ we had a vague document,
  describing its functionality. It did not allow us to
  successfully finish the project because there were great
  risks of inconsistencies between the document and the final
  software product. We decided to write a proper software
  specification based on software defects from the customer's
  point of view.
keywords:
  - software development
---

MESSQ project is an information corporate portal with the functions of project
management and corporate document circulation. It is a long-lasting
project with a wide scope of work. At the initial phase of the MESSQ
project, scope was fixed by a document called "Project Task". This document
had 80 pages and consisted of vague and unclear definitions.

Our current principles proclaim that software requirements shall be correct,
unambiguous, complete, consistent, verifiable, modifiable, and
traceable. So the old style document became an obsolete document for scope
management. But when we tried to modify the MESSQ "Project Task", we found out
that direct transforming would take from MESSQ the cost of 100-120 hours, and
this was not appropriate so completing the project would be unsatisfactory.

Our decision was to write a new software specification, which would
consist of requirements in the type of software "defects" for the time
being. In other words, specification was built from inconsistencies
between current the software product and the project task: one "defect" -- one
requirement. So we used a type of gap analysis in order to compare and
document actual project performance with its potential performance.
The main attention was paid to the customer's opinion on scope integrity.
Writing the new specifications cost 30 hours, which led to a cost savings of
70-80 hours.

This described approach allows us to avoid risks related to vague
requirements and save on cost and money.  The joint work of project
participants became dramatically easier after establishing the new type
of specification. This document has 7 pages of clear and non-vague
requirements. Consequently, working on each requirement for the software
product (deliverables of MESSQ project) we met all of the customer expectations.
The MESSQ project was successfully finished in time and even with a budget savings.
