---
layout: article
date: 2014-08-08
permalink: stories/adnet
label: Architecture decomposition
title: "Early Architecture Decomposition"
description: |
  We're providing early architecture elaboration to identify
  technical risks as soon as possible. Sometimes this rule
  saves a lot of time and money, prevents cost losses and
  helps in reaching the project objectives. This is one of
  those stories.
keywords:
  - software development
---

The main project's outcome was an on-line ad serving program for 
    Advertisers and Publishers, which would give them the ability to manage 
    ads and financial statistics.

    The key objective of the project was to get an effective system, which 
    would allow registered users to make on-line advertisements more effective 
    by means of creating, managing, tracking, controlling and reporting 
    ad popularity and financial statistics.

    The main constraint of the project was the inconsistency of the customer's 
    requirement amount and amount of the initial budget. That's why we 
    decided to divide the scope of the whole system into several releases. The first 
    release was to provide only minimal functionality of the system that 
    would allow the customer to put it to work and earn some revenue. 

    We also decided to separate the database and the main business functions from the
    user interface because we expected a high load of statistic modules 
    (800-1200K queries a day). All control and statistic queries were 
    to work through XML calls. 
 
\begin{tikzpicture}

    \node [block] (aGUI) {Advertiser's GUI};
    \node [block, right=3cm of aGUI] (pGUI) {Publisher's GUI};
    \node [block, below=2cm of aGUI] (aLogic) {Advertiser's Logic};
    \node [block, right=3cm of aLogic] (pLogic) {Publisher's Logic};

    \node [draw=tpcBlue, fit=(aGUI) (pGUI), inner sep=7mm] (gui) {};
    \node [below=0mm of gui.north east, anchor=north east] {User Interface (Panel)};

    \node [draw=tpcBlue, fit=(aLogic) (pLogic), inner sep=7mm] (logic) {};
    \node [below=0mm of logic.north east, anchor=north east] {Busines Logic and Database (Platform)};

    \node [draw=tpcRed, fit=(aGUI) (aLogic), inner sep=15mm, dashed, very thick] (release) {};
    \node [below=0mm of release.north, anchor=north, text=tpcRed] {First Release};

\end{tikzpicture}

    First we tried to define the first release scope as all the advertisers' 
    functions and some minor publishers' functions to make the system 
    work. But with architecture elaboration we understood that the main project 
    objective (get the ability to put the system to work and earn revenue) 
    could not be reached while the Publisher's logic was not implemented.
 
\begin{tikzpicture}

    \node [block] (aGUI) {Advertiser's GUI};
    \node [block, right=3cm of aGUI] (pGUI) {Publisher's GUI};
    \node [block, below=2cm of aGUI] (aLogic) {Advertiser's Logic};
    \node [block, right=3cm of aLogic] (pLogic) {Publisher's Logic};

    \node [draw=tpcBlue, fit=(aGUI) (pGUI), inner sep=7mm] (gui) {};
    \node [below=0mm of gui.north east, anchor=north east] {User Interface (Panel)};

    \node [draw=tpcBlue, fit=(aLogic) (pLogic), inner sep=7mm] (logic) {};
    \node [below=0mm of logic.north east, anchor=north east] {Busines Logic and Database (Platform)};

    \node [draw=tpcRed, fit=(aLogic) (pLogic), inner sep=15mm, dashed, very thick] (release) {};
    \node [below right=1mm of release.north west, anchor=north west, text=tpcRed, fill=white] {First Release};

\end{tikzpicture}

    So we decided to define the first release scope as all main business 
    logic, database structure and some minor user interface functions.

    This early architecture decomposition of the system saved 400 staff-hours that could be spent for later implementation of the Publishers' logic.

    It's very important for us to decide how a system will look before we start implementation. We usually spend a lot of time on 
    system definition, architecture elaboration and decomposition. In this 
    way we appreciably decrease project risk scores and save budget.
